docs/guide/getting-started.md, before:

# Getting started with COM-Server

This page will show you the basics of getting started with COM-Server.

## Creating a Connection class

```py
import com_server

conn = com_server.Connection(port="<port>", baud=<baud>)
```

Each Serial port has a port and a baud rate. The port varies from operating system to operating system. For example:

- On Linux, the port is in the `/dev` directory and begins with `tty` followed by some letters and numbers (e.g. `/dev/ttyUSB0`, `/dev/ttyUSB1`, `/dev/ttyACM0`).
- On Mac OS, the port is also in the `/dev` directory and begins with `cu.` then a sequence of letters and numbers. If it is a USB port, then it would be `cu.usbserial` followed by a string of letters/numbers (`/dev/cu.usbserial-A1252381`) 
- On Windows, the port usually begins with `COM` (e.g. `COM3`).

A good way of determining the port is by disconnecting the serial port, typing in the command below, connecting the port, then entering the command again. The one that shows up is the one that you would use.

```sh
> pyserial-ports
```

If `/dev/ttyUSB0` is the one that shows up after the connection, then we would write it like this:

```py
import com_server

conn = com_server.Connection(port="/dev/ttyUSB0", baud=<baud>)
```

The baud rate is necessary for serial ports because it determines the speed that data should be transferred at, in bits per second. The standard baud rates can be seen [here](https://lucidar.me/en/serialib/most-used-baud-rates-table/), with the ones that are most commonly used bolded.

Example:

Opening a port at `/dev/ttyUSB0` with baud rate `115200`:
```py
import com_server

conn = com_server.Connection(port="/dev/ttyUSB0", baud=115200)
```

`115200` and `9600` are the ones most commonly used with Arduino using `Serial.begin()`:

```cpp
void setup(){
    Serial.begin(9600);
    // setup code
}

void loop(){
    // loop code
}
```

It is always recommended to use a timeout. The default timeout is 1 second. Below is an example of a port opened at `/dev/ttyUSB0` with baud rate `115200` and a timeout of 2 seconds:
```py
import com_server

conn = com_server.Connection(port="/dev/ttyUSB0", baud=115200, timeout=2)
```

### Connecting and disconnecting

This is when the object actually connects to the serial port. When this happens, it spawns a thread called the IO thread which handles sending and receiving data to and from the serial port.

When disconnecting the object, it will delete the IO thread and reset its IO variables, including the send queue and the list of received data.

There are two ways of doing this:

* Using the `connect` and `disconnect` methods

```py
conn.connect()

# do stuff with the connection object

conn.disconnect()
```

**Important:** Remember to always call the `disconnect()` method if the object will not be used anymore, or there may be stray threads in your program.

* Using a context manager:

```py
with com_server.Connection(port="/dev/ttyUSB0", baud=115200) as conn:
    # do stuff with connection object
```

The context manager will connect the object automatically as it enters and disconnect it automatically when it exits, so you do not have to worry about calling `disconnect()` before deleting the object.

To check if the connection object is currently connected or not, use the `connected` property:

```py
print(conn.connected)
```

### Reconnecting

On the event of a disconnect, you can call the `reconnect()` function to try to reconnect to a new port. However, it will raise a `ConnectException` if the port is already connected and this is called.

```py
conn.reconnect() # will connect to previous port
conn.reconnect(port="/dev/ttyUSB1") # will change port to /dev/ttyUSB1 and reconnect there
```

### Sending 

To send data to the serial port, use the `send()` method. Put the data you want to send as arguments inside the send method. 

```py
# will send "a b c 1 2 3\r\n" without the quotations
conn.send("a", "b", "c", 1, 2, 3) 
```

To control what your arguments should be concatenated by, use the `concatenate` option:

```py
# will send "a;b;c;1;2;3\r\n" without the quotations
conn.send("a", "b", "c", 1, 2, 3, concatenate=';')
```

By default the `concatenate` option is a whitespace character.

To control what should be appended at the end before sending, use the `ending` option:

```py
# will send "a;b;c;1;2;3\n" without the quotations
conn.send("a", "b", "c", 1, 2, 3, ending='\n')
```
By default the `ending` option is a carraige return: `\r\n`.

Note that sending data too quickly will cause this function to return immediately without sending. This is because it takes time to send things through the serial port and sending data too rapidly may lead to data loss. To customize the interval between sending, use the `send_interval` option in the constructor of this class. The default is 1 second between sending.

If the timeout is reached, the method will return.

### Receiving

To get the data that came in from the serial port most recently, use the `receive()` method:

```py
rcv = conn.receive() # gets bytes object
rcv = conn.receive_str() # gets string object
```

To get the next most data that came in from the serial port:
```py
rcv = conn.receive(num_before=1) # gets bytes object
rcv = conn.receive_str(num_before=1) # gets string object
```

Increase the value of `num_before` to get the next most recent, next next more recent, etc. received data. 

If there has not been any received data, then returns `None`.

To wait for the first data to be received, use the `get()` method:

```py
rcv = conn.get(bytes) # gets first bytes after the method is called
rcv = conn.get(str) # gets first string after method is called
```

If the timeout is reached, then the method will return `None`.

### Full example

This example sends something to the serial port and then prints the first data that comes from the serial port after sending.

```py
import time
from com_server import Connection

conn = Connection(port="/dev/ttyUSB0", baud=115200)

conn.connect()

while conn.connected:
    conn.send("Sending something", ending="\n")
    received = conn.get(str)

    print(received)
    
    time.sleep(1) # wait one second between sending 

conn.disconnect()
```

## Creating a RestApiHandler class

This is the class that handles setting up the server that hosts an API which interacts with the serial ports.

This class uses `Flask` and `flask_restful`'s API class as its back end. More about them [here](https://flask.palletsprojects.com) and [here](https://flask-restful.readthedocs.io).

The example below shows how to create a `RestApiHandler` object and run it as a Flask development server on `https://0.0.0.0:8080`:
```py
import flask
import flask_restful
from com_server import Connection, RestApiHandler

conn = Connection(port="/dev/ttyUSB0", baud=115200)
handler = RestApiHandler(conn)

# automatically connects conn
handler.run_dev(host="0.0.0.0", port=8080)

conn.disconnect()
```

### Adding built-in endpoints

By default, the `/register` and `/recall` endpoints are reserved and you cannot use them. However, adding the built-in endpoints adds a list of endpoints that you cannot use. These endpoints are:

- `/send`
- `/receive` 
- `/receive/all` 
- `/get` 
- `/send/get_first` 
- `/get/wait` 
- `/send/get` 
- `/connected`
- `/list_ports`

For more information on these endpoints and how to use them, see [here](/server/server-api).

This is how to add those endpoints:
```py
import flask
import flask_restful
from com_server import Connection, RestApiHandler, Builtins

conn = Connection(port="/dev/ttyUSB0", baud=115200)
handler = RestApiHandler(conn)
Builtins(handler)

handler.run_dev(host="0.0.0.0", port=8080)

conn.disconnect()
```

There is no need to assign a variable to `Builtins` as all it does is add the endpoints to the `RestApiHandler` object declared above. 

`run_dev()` calls `Flask.run()`, which means that its arguments are also the arguments of `Flask.run()`. To run on a production server, use `run_prod()` rather than `run_dev()`, which calls `waitress.serve()`. See more info [here](http://localhost:8000/guide/library-api/#restapihandlerrun_dev).

### Adding custom endpoints

To add custom endpoints, use the `add_endpoints` decorator above a function with a nested class in it. The nested class should extend `ConnectionResource` and have functions similar to the classes of `flask_restful`. See [here](https://flask-restful.readthedocs.io/en/latest/quickstart.html#a-minimal-api) for more info. The function needs to have a `conn` parameter indicating the connection object and lastly needs to return the nested class.

The example below adds an endpoint at `/hello_world`, sends "`Hello world\n`" to the serial port, then returns `{"Hello": "world"}` when there is a GET request.

```py
from com_server import Connection, RestApiHandler, Builtins, ConnectionResource

conn = Connection(port="/dev/ttyUSB0", baud=115200)
handler = RestApiHandler(conn)
Builtins(handler)

@handler.add_endpoint("/hello_world")
class HelloWorldEndpoint(ConnectionResource):
    def get(self):
        self.conn.send("Hello", "world", ending='\n')
        return {"Hello": "world"}
    
handler.run_dev(host="0.0.0.0", port=8080)

conn.disconnect()
```

Again, note that the endpoints listed above cannot be used.

## Using the endpoints

Assuming that you're using the `com_server` command to run or `has_register_recall` is False when initializing your `RestApiHandler`, then you need to access the `/register` and `/recall` to ensure to the program that there is only one IP/device connecting (see [Recommended Use](/#recommended-use)). 

When you are beginning to use the serial port, send a GET request to `/register`, and when you are finished, send a GET request to `/recall`. There are no arguments needed.

There is a built-in endpoint for almost every of the methods in `Connection`, in addition to the `send` and `receive` methods of `BaseConnection`. See the [Server API](/server/server-api) for more information on how to use them. Note that if you send a request to the `/send` endpoint or a send-based endpoint (an endpoint that sends any data to the serial port) too rapidly (under the time specified in `send_interval`), it will respond with a 502 error.

Commit message:

add example for multiple ports

docs/guide/getting-started.md, after:

# Getting started with COM-Server

This page will show you the basics of getting started with COM-Server.

## Creating a Connection class

```py
import com_server

conn = com_server.Connection(port="<port>", baud=<baud>)
```

Each Serial port has a port and a baud rate. The port varies from operating system to operating system. For example:

- On Linux, the port is in the `/dev` directory and begins with `tty` followed by some letters and numbers (e.g. `/dev/ttyUSB0`, `/dev/ttyUSB1`, `/dev/ttyACM0`).
- On Mac OS, the port is also in the `/dev` directory and begins with `cu.` then a sequence of letters and numbers. If it is a USB port, then it would be `cu.usbserial` followed by a string of letters/numbers (`/dev/cu.usbserial-A1252381`) 
- On Windows, the port usually begins with `COM` (e.g. `COM3`).

A good way of determining the port is by disconnecting the serial port, typing in the command below, connecting the port, then entering the command again. The one that shows up is the one that you would use.

```sh
> pyserial-ports
```

If `/dev/ttyUSB0` is the one that shows up after the connection, then we would write it like this:

```py
import com_server

conn = com_server.Connection(port="/dev/ttyUSB0", baud=<baud>)
```

The baud rate is necessary for serial ports because it determines the speed that data should be transferred at, in bits per second. The standard baud rates can be seen [here](https://lucidar.me/en/serialib/most-used-baud-rates-table/), with the ones that are most commonly used bolded.

Example:

Opening a port at `/dev/ttyUSB0` with baud rate `115200`:
```py
import com_server

conn = com_server.Connection(port="/dev/ttyUSB0", baud=115200)
```

`115200` and `9600` are the ones most commonly used with Arduino using `Serial.begin()`:

```cpp
void setup(){
    Serial.begin(9600);
    // setup code
}

void loop(){
    // loop code
}
```

It is always recommended to use a timeout. The default timeout is 1 second. Below is an example of a port opened at `/dev/ttyUSB0` with baud rate `115200` and a timeout of 2 seconds:
```py
import com_server

conn = com_server.Connection(port="/dev/ttyUSB0", baud=115200, timeout=2)
```

#### Multiple ports

If you want to try multiple ports, then you can put them as arguments like this:

```py
import com_server

conn = com_server.Connection(115200, "/dev/ttyUSB0", "/dev/ttyUSB1", "/dev/ttyACM0", "/dev/ttyACM1")
```

In this example, the program will try to connect to `/dev/ttyUSB0` with baud rate 115200. If that fails, then it will try to connect to `/dev/ttyUSB1`, and so on. It will establish a connection with the **first** port that succeeds.

### Connecting and disconnecting

This is when the object actually connects to the serial port. When this happens, it spawns a thread called the IO thread which handles sending and receiving data to and from the serial port.

When disconnecting the object, it will delete the IO thread and reset its IO variables, including the send queue and the list of received data.

There are two ways of doing this:

* Using the `connect` and `disconnect` methods

```py
conn.connect()

# do stuff with the connection object

conn.disconnect()
```

**Important:** Remember to always call the `disconnect()` method if the object will not be used anymore, or there may be stray threads in your program.

* Using a context manager:

```py
with com_server.Connection(port="/dev/ttyUSB0", baud=115200) as conn:
    # do stuff with connection object
```

The context manager will connect the object automatically as it enters and disconnect it automatically when it exits, so you do not have to worry about calling `disconnect()` before deleting the object.

To check if the connection object is currently connected or not, use the `connected` property:

```py
print(conn.connected)
```

### Reconnecting

On the event of a disconnect, you can call the `reconnect()` function to try to reconnect to a new port. However, it will raise a `ConnectException` if the port is already connected and this is called.

```py
conn.reconnect() # will connect to previous port
conn.reconnect(port="/dev/ttyUSB1") # will change port to /dev/ttyUSB1 and reconnect there
```

### Sending 

To send data to the serial port, use the `send()` method. Put the data you want to send as arguments inside the send method. 

```py
# will send "a b c 1 2 3\r\n" without the quotations
conn.send("a", "b", "c", 1, 2, 3) 
```

To control what your arguments should be concatenated by, use the `concatenate` option:

```py
# will send "a;b;c;1;2;3\r\n" without the quotations
conn.send("a", "b", "c", 1, 2, 3, concatenate=';')
```

By default the `concatenate` option is a whitespace character.

To control what should be appended at the end before sending, use the `ending` option:

```py
# will send "a;b;c;1;2;3\n" without the quotations
conn.send("a", "b", "c", 1, 2, 3, ending='\n')
```
By default the `ending` option is a carraige return: `\r\n`.

Note that sending data too quickly will cause this function to return immediately without sending. This is because it takes time to send things through the serial port and sending data too rapidly may lead to data loss. To customize the interval between sending, use the `send_interval` option in the constructor of this class. The default is 1 second between sending.

If the timeout is reached, the method will return.

### Receiving

To get the data that came in from the serial port most recently, use the `receive()` method:

```py
rcv = conn.receive() # gets bytes object
rcv = conn.receive_str() # gets string object
```

To get the next most data that came in from the serial port:
```py
rcv = conn.receive(num_before=1) # gets bytes object
rcv = conn.receive_str(num_before=1) # gets string object
```

Increase the value of `num_before` to get the next most recent, next next more recent, etc. received data. 

If there has not been any received data, then returns `None`.

To wait for the first data to be received, use the `get()` method:

```py
rcv = conn.get(bytes) # gets first bytes after the method is called
rcv = conn.get(str) # gets first string after method is called
```

If the timeout is reached, then the method will return `None`.

### Full example

This example sends something to the serial port and then prints the first data that comes from the serial port after sending.

```py
import time
from com_server import Connection

conn = Connection(port="/dev/ttyUSB0", baud=115200)

conn.connect()

while conn.connected:
    conn.send("Sending something", ending="\n")
    received = conn.get(str)

    print(received)
    
    time.sleep(1) # wait one second between sending 

conn.disconnect()
```

## Creating a RestApiHandler class

This is the class that handles setting up the server that hosts an API which interacts with the serial ports.

This class uses `Flask` and `flask_restful`'s API class as its back end. More about them [here](https://flask.palletsprojects.com) and [here](https://flask-restful.readthedocs.io).

The example below shows how to create a `RestApiHandler` object and run it as a Flask development server on `https://0.0.0.0:8080`:
```py
import flask
import flask_restful
from com_server import Connection, RestApiHandler

conn = Connection(port="/dev/ttyUSB0", baud=115200)
handler = RestApiHandler(conn)

# automatically connects conn
handler.run_dev(host="0.0.0.0", port=8080)

conn.disconnect()
```

### Adding built-in endpoints

By default, the `/register` and `/recall` endpoints are reserved and you cannot use them. However, adding the built-in endpoints adds a list of endpoints that you cannot use. These endpoints are:

- `/send`
- `/receive` 
- `/receive/all` 
- `/get` 
- `/send/get_first` 
- `/get/wait` 
- `/send/get` 
- `/connected`
- `/list_ports`

For more information on these endpoints and how to use them, see [here](/server/server-api).

This is how to add those endpoints:
```py
import flask
import flask_restful
from com_server import Connection, RestApiHandler, Builtins

conn = Connection(port="/dev/ttyUSB0", baud=115200)
handler = RestApiHandler(conn)
Builtins(handler)

handler.run_dev(host="0.0.0.0", port=8080)

conn.disconnect()
```

There is no need to assign a variable to `Builtins` as all it does is add the endpoints to the `RestApiHandler` object declared above. 

`run_dev()` calls `Flask.run()`, which means that its arguments are also the arguments of `Flask.run()`. To run on a production server, use `run_prod()` rather than `run_dev()`, which calls `waitress.serve()`. See more info [here](http://localhost:8000/guide/library-api/#restapihandlerrun_dev).

### Adding custom endpoints

To add custom endpoints, use the `add_endpoints` decorator above a function with a nested class in it. The nested class should extend `ConnectionResource` and have functions similar to the classes of `flask_restful`. See [here](https://flask-restful.readthedocs.io/en/latest/quickstart.html#a-minimal-api) for more info. The function needs to have a `conn` parameter indicating the connection object and lastly needs to return the nested class.

The example below adds an endpoint at `/hello_world`, sends "`Hello world\n`" to the serial port, then returns `{"Hello": "world"}` when there is a GET request.

```py
from com_server import Connection, RestApiHandler, Builtins, ConnectionResource

conn = Connection(port="/dev/ttyUSB0", baud=115200)
handler = RestApiHandler(conn)
Builtins(handler)

@handler.add_endpoint("/hello_world")
class HelloWorldEndpoint(ConnectionResource):
    def get(self):
        self.conn.send("Hello", "world", ending='\n')
        return {"Hello": "world"}
    
handler.run_dev(host="0.0.0.0", port=8080)

conn.disconnect()
```

Again, note that the endpoints listed above cannot be used.

## Using the endpoints

Assuming that you're using the `com_server` command to run or `has_register_recall` is False when initializing your `RestApiHandler`, then you need to access the `/register` and `/recall` to ensure to the program that there is only one IP/device connecting (see [Recommended Use](/#recommended-use)). 

When you are beginning to use the serial port, send a GET request to `/register`, and when you are finished, send a GET request to `/recall`. There are no arguments needed.

There is a built-in endpoint for almost every of the methods in `Connection`, in addition to the `send` and `receive` methods of `BaseConnection`. See the [Server API](/server/server-api) for more information on how to use them. Note that if you send a request to the `/send` endpoint or a send-based endpoint (an endpoint that sends any data to the serial port) too rapidly (under the time specified in `send_interval`), it will respond with a 502 error.
